---
title: 'Capitalizing National Scale Zillow Housing Data for Environmental Valuation'
date: 2023-08-18
permalink: /posts/2021/08/zillow/
tags:
  - Distributed computing
  - SQL
  - REST API
  - Python
  - R
---
______________________________

In this project, I operationalize national-scale Zillow data and quantify behavioral and market responses to environmental amenities and hazards. The nationwide property assessment and transaction datasets are merged with different geospatial datasets (such as parcel maps, Microsoft building footprint, National Hydrography Dataset, and Critical Habitat dataset). These large-scale datasets are in different formats that require them to access in different ways such as SQL, REST API, and Parquet. I used different statistical and modeling techniques understand the dynamics of housing market along with environmental attributes.

The outcome of the project is 5 peer review journal articles.

1) Mamun, S., Castillo, A., Swedberg, K., Zhang, J., Boyle, K., Cardoso, D., Kling, C.L., Nolte, C.,
Papenfus, M., Phaneuf, D., & Polasky, S. (2023) "Valuing water quality in the US using a national data
set on property values". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.

2) Mamun, S., Nelson, E.J., & Nolte, C. (2023) "Estimating the impact of Critical Habitat designation on the
values of undeveloped lots and houses" Land Economics

3) Nolte, C., Boyle, K.J., Chaudhry, A.M., Clapp, C.M., Guignet, D., Hennighausen, H., Kushner, I., Liao,
Y., Mamun, S., Pollack, A., Richardson, J., Sundquist, S., Swedberg, K., & Uhl, J.H., (2023) "Studying the
Impacts of Environmental Amenities and Hazards with Nationwide Property Data: Best Data Practices
for Interpretable and Reproducible Analyses" Land Economics

4) Swedberg, K., Cardoso, D., Castillo, A., Mamun, S., Boyle, K., Kling, C.L., Nolte, C., Papenfus, M., &
Polasky, S. (2023) "Spatial Heterogeneity in Hedonic Price Effects for Lake Water Quality". Land Economics

5) Mamun, S., Nolte, C., & Polasky, S. (2023) "Nationwide lake impairment and property values". (preparing for Journal of Environmental Economics and Management)

